Process and Policy Pages for Submitting Data (#1627)
agrc/gis.utah.gov: about/policy/metadata/index.md

  - metadata
  - sgid
date: 2020-07-09 09:33:34 -0600
title: Basic Metadata Requirements
categories: []
---

> Effective metadata helps people understand the source of a dataset, how up-to-date it is, and any of its inherent restrictions or limitations. Listed below are the minimum metadata items that should be present in any SGID datasets. These correspond to the Esri [Item Description](https://desktop.arcgis.com/en/arcmap/latest/manage-data/metadata/metadata-standards-and-styles.htm#ESRI_SECTION1_29222DC149544E89A4147541A4ACAF86) metadata style and the metadata displayed on an item's ArcGIS Online page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Effective metadata helps people understand the source of a dataset, how up-to-date it is, and any of its inherent restrictions or limitations. Listed below are the minimum metadata items that should be present in any SGID datasets. These correspond to the Esri [Item Description](https://pro.arcgis.com/en/pro-app/latest/help/metadata/view-and-edit-metadata.htm) metadata style and the metadata displayed on an item's ArcGIS Online page.
```

Would this be a more up-to-date link? ArcMap is going away despite what @rkelson thinks. ;)

## Basic SGID Metadata

#### Title
{: .text-left}

The title should match the dataset name. If it's a statewide dataset, the title should begin with the word "Utah".

> Example: 1Utah County Boundaries`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example: `Utah County Boundaries`
```

The summary should _briefly_ explain the dataset in under 250 characters (an ArcGIS Online limitation). It is primarily used when reviewing ArcGIS Online search results. The summary may end up being very similar to the dataset name for some datasets.

Example: `Utah public library and bookmobile locations`

#### Description
{: .text-left}

The description is a more in-depth version of the summary and should stand on its own. It is a great place for details on the source of the data, how frequently it's updated, its usability at certain scales, or any common misconceptions. A good description is also important because it's the main info displayed in [Open Data](https://opendata.gis.utah.gov/) (the summary is not shown).

The first line of the description should be be the date the dataset was last updated so people have a clear and consistent place to see how fresh or stale it is.

For datasets hosted by AGRC, this section should also contain a link to the corresponding [gis.utah.gov data page]({% link data/index.html %}).

#### Credits (as in the source of the data)
{: .text-left}

The credits should clearly state who created the dataset and how you can get in contact with them.

> Example: `AGRC, UDOT`

Reviewer: **question**: Should this example include any contact information? The description above references contact information.

We have distilled the basic elements of metadata into a few approachable questions. If you can answer these simple questions about your data, then you're officially on your way to good metadata.

#### Can you answer these questions about your data?
{: .text-left}

##### Summarize your Data
{: .text-left}

- What is this dataset?
- What is the purpose of this dataset?

##### Describe your Data
{: .text-left}

- What does this dataset represent?
  - ex: road centerlines represent the centerline of a physical road
- How was this dataset created?
  - ex: digitized, GPS, etc.
- How reliable and accurate is the dataset?
  - ex: survey-grade, mapping-grade, etc.
- What is the general update schedule for this dataset?
  - ex: monthly, yearly, as needed, etc.
- Are there any warnings or limitations on the data?
  - ex: don’t use parcels as a legal boundary depiction
  - ex: don’t use parcels as a complete dataset for geocoding
  - ex: don’t use zip codes for demographic generalization
- Are there any common misconceptions or assumptions about this data that should be further explained?

>   - ex: highway milepost markers are not an accurate length measurement. If a highway is lengthened or shortened, the markers are not adjusted.

Reviewer 2: **thought**: this seems like good information. maybe it got moved or just removed?
